An Operating is made of many components, but its two prime components are - Kernel and Shell
Kernel: It is at the nucleus of a computer. It makes the communication between the hardware and software possible. While the Kernel is the innermost part of an operating system,
a shell is the outermost one.
Shell: It is a UNIX term for an interface between a user and an operating system service. A shell takes input from users in the form of commands, processes it, and then gives
an output. The Shell wraps around the delicate interior of an Operating system protecting it from accidental damage, hence the name Shell.
Types of Shell: There are two main shells in Linux - The Bourne Shell & The C shell
1. The Bourne Shell: The prompt for this shell is $ and its derivatives are listed below:
POSIX shell also is known as sh
Korn Shell also knew as sh
Bourne Again Shell also knew as bash (most popular)/ BASH Shell
2. The C shell: The prompt for this shell is %, and its subcategories are:
C shell also is known as csh
Tops C shell also is known as tcsh

How to Write Shell Script in Linux/Unix: Shell Scripts are written using text editors vi/nano/vim
1. Create a file using a vi editor(or any other editor).  Name  script file with extension .sh
2. Start the script with #! /bin/sh  
3. Write some code.
4. Save the script file as filename.sh
5. For executing the script type bash filename.sh

"#!" is an operator called shebang which directs the script to the interpreter location. So, if we use"#! /bin/sh" the script gets directed to the bourne-shell.
Sample script: "test.sh"
Create a file test.sh to replace command "ls" as script wiht its content  line 1: #!/bin/sh and line 2: ls  
Add comment staring with # e.g. # list the content of the present working directory and another command "pwd" to provide the information of the prsent dierctory.
So script will have now line 3: comment and line 4: pwd
$ bash test.sh will execute script to provide information on the present working directory and the contents of this directory.
( We can add command like ps, df -h, free -m.... to get all such information by executing a simple script ).
